CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Welcome to Scaffold-ETH 2 Contributing Guide

Thank you for investing your time in contributing to Scaffold-ETH 2!

This guide aims to provide an overview of the contribution workflow to help us make the contribution process effective for everyone involved.

## About the Project

Scaffold-ETH 2 is a minimal and forkable repo providing builders with a starter kit to build decentralized applications on Ethereum.

Read the [README](README.md) to get an overview of the project.

### Vision

The goal of Scaffold-ETH 2 is to provide the primary building blocks for a decentralized application.

The repo can be forked to include integrations and more features, but we want to keep the master branch simple and minimal.

### Project Status

The project is under active development.

You can view the open Issues, follow the development process and contribute to the project.

## Getting started

You can contribute to this repo in many ways:

- Solve open issues
- Report bugs or feature requests
- Improve the documentation

Contributions are made via Issues and Pull Requests (PRs). A few general guidelines for contributions:

- Search for existing Issues and PRs before creating your own.
- Contributions should only fix/add the functionality in the issue OR address style issues, not both.
- If you're running into an error, please give context. Explain what you're trying to do and how to reproduce the error.
- Please use the same formatting in the code repository. You can configure your IDE to do it by using the prettier / linting config files included in each package.
- If applicable, please edit the README.md file to reflect the changes.

### Issues

Issues should be used to report problems, request a new feature, or discuss potential changes before a PR is created.

#### Solve an issue

Scan through our [existing issues](https://github.com/scaffold-eth/scaffold-eth-2/issues) to find one that interests you.

If a contributor is working on the issue, they will be assigned to the individual. If you find an issue to work on, you are welcome to assign it to yourself and open a PR with a fix for it.

#### Create a new issue

If a related issue doesn't exist, you can open a new issue.

Some tips to follow when you are creating an issue:

- Provide as much context as possible. Over-communicate to give the most details to the reader.
- Include the steps to reproduce the issue or the reason for adding the feature.
- Screenshots, videos etc., are highly appreciated.

### Pull Requests

#### Pull Request Process

We follow the ["fork-and-pull" Git workflow](https://github.com/susam/gitpr)

1. Fork the repo
2. Clone the project
3. Create a new branch with a descriptive name
4. Commit your changes to the new branch
5. Push changes to your fork
6. Open a PR in our repository and tag one of the maintainers to review your PR

Here are some tips for a high-quality pull request:

- Create a title for the PR that accurately defines the work done.
- Structure the description neatly to make it easy to consume by the readers. For example, you can include bullet points and screenshots instead of having one large paragraph.
- Add the link to the issue if applicable.
- Have a good commit message that summarises the work done.

Once you submit your PR:

- We may ask questions, request additional information or ask for changes to be made before a PR can be merged. Please note that these are to make the PR clear for everyone involved and aims to create a frictionless interaction process.
- As you update your PR and apply changes, mark each conversation resolved.

Once the PR is approved, we'll "squash-and-merge" to keep the git commit history clean.

Commit message:

Add contributing rules (#1031)
Co-authored-by: Carlos Sánchez <oceanrdn@gmail.com>

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Welcome to Scaffold-ETH 2 Contributing Guide

Thank you for investing your time in contributing to Scaffold-ETH 2!

This guide aims to provide an overview of the contribution workflow to help us make the contribution process effective for everyone involved.

## About the Project

Scaffold-ETH 2 is a minimal and forkable repo providing builders with a starter kit to build decentralized applications on Ethereum.

Read the [README](README.md) to get an overview of the project.

### Vision

The goal of Scaffold-ETH 2 is to provide the primary building blocks for a decentralized application.

The repo can be forked to include integrations and more features, but we want to keep the `main` branch simple and minimal.

### Project Status

The project is under active development.

You can view the open Issues, follow the development process, and contribute to the project.

### Rules

1. All code contributions require an Issue to be created and agreed upon by core contributors before submitting a Pull Request. This ensures proper discussion, alignment, and consensus on the proposed changes.
2. Contributors must be humans, not bots.
3. First-time contributions must not contain only spelling or grammatical fixes.

## Getting started

You can contribute to this repo in many ways:

- Solve open issues
- Report bugs or feature requests
- Improve the documentation

Contributions are made via Issues and Pull Requests (PRs). A few general guidelines for contributions:

- Search for existing Issues and PRs before creating your own.
- Contributions should only fix/add the functionality in the issue OR address style issues, not both.
- If you're running into an error, please give context. Explain what you're trying to do and how to reproduce the error.
- Please use the same formatting in the code repository. You can configure your IDE to do it by using the prettier / linting config files included in each package.
- If applicable, please edit the README.md file to reflect the changes.

### Issues

Issues should be used to report problems, request a new feature, or discuss potential changes before a PR is created.

#### Solve an issue

Scan through our [existing issues](https://github.com/scaffold-eth/scaffold-eth-2/issues) to find one that interests you.

If a contributor is working on the issue, they will be assigned to the individual. If you find an issue to work on, you are welcome to assign it to yourself and open a PR with a fix for it.

#### Create a new issue

If a related issue doesn't exist, you can open a new issue.

Some tips to follow when you are creating an issue:

- Provide as much context as possible. Over-communicate to give the most details to the reader.
- Include the steps to reproduce the issue or the reason for adding the feature.
- Screenshots, videos, etc., are highly appreciated.

### Pull Requests

#### Pull Request Process

We follow the ["fork-and-pull" Git workflow](https://github.com/susam/gitpr)

1. Fork the repo
2. Clone the project
3. Create a new branch with a descriptive name
4. Commit your changes to the new branch
5. Push changes to your fork
6. Open a PR in our repository and tag one of the maintainers to review your PR

Here are some tips for a high-quality pull request:

- Create a title for the PR that accurately defines the work done.
- Structure the description neatly to make it easy to consume by the readers. For example, you can include bullet points and screenshots instead of having one large paragraph.
- Add the link to the issue if applicable.
- Have a good commit message that summarises the work done.

Once you submit your PR:

- We may ask questions, request additional information, or ask for changes to be made before a PR can be merged. Please note that these are to make the PR clear for everyone involved and aim to create a frictionless interaction process.
- As you update your PR and apply changes, mark each conversation resolved.

Once the PR is approved, we'll "squash-and-merge" to keep the git commit history clean.
